Documentation - Landing page (#4)
gazebo-web/cloudsim: README.md

<div align="center">
  <img src="./assets/logo.png" width="200" alt="Gazebo" />
  <h1>Gazebo Cloudsim</h1>
  <p>Cloudsim is an open source library to run robotic applications in the cloud. It currently supports deployments using Kubernetes and AWS resources, but support for other providers can be implemented.</p>

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gazebo-web/cloudsim?include_prereleases=&sort=semver&color=blue)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/releases/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue)](#license)
[![issues - cloudsim](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/gazebo-web/cloudsim)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/issues)

> [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim)

Reviewer: This is showing up as a broken link to me.

Author: Works for me, care to try again? https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/blob/a00e77d0acfa864360f588593d46c01e01a97034/README.md

Reviewer: Working now. Was probably an issue on my end.

- A **Machines** component in charge of interacting with a cloud provider and performing various operations (request, termination, count) with instances like _EC2_ machines.
- A **Storage** component that uploads artifacts produced by a Simulation to a cloud storage like _S3_.
- A **Cost Calculator** component that allows application to keep track of their expenses and the cost of running simulations in a certain cloud provider.
- An **Orchestrator** component that interacts with a Kubernetes cluster to launch, stop and restart simulation resources, including but not limited to the following sub-components:
    - Pods
    - Nodes
    - Secrets
    - Configurations
    - Network
    - Ingresses
    - Services
- A **Cycler** component that allows cycling over different regions in a cloud provider, implementing different strategies to enable multi-region support.
- An **Email Sender** that allows notifying users about their simulations.

The cloudsim library provides multiple components that are used by applications to run simulations in the cloud. These components usually are an abstraction of a third-party service that will be consumed by cloudsim, and they were created in

> order to let the application decide which cloud provider to use.

Reviewer: Components are not only related to cloud providers (e.g. `Orchestrator`)

```suggestion
order to let the application decide which technologies to use.
```

> order to let the application decide which cloud provider to use.

Reviewer: This introduction should be moved to the beginning of this section.

<div align="center">
  <img src="./assets/logo.png" width="200" alt="Gazebo" />
  <h1>Gazebo Cloudsim</h1>

>   <p>Cloudsim is an open source library for creating robotic applications in the cloud. It allows to create applications that run Gazebo simulations in Kubernetes. It currently has support for AWS, but support for other providers can be implemented.</p>

Reviewer: I feel like robotic applications is a bit broad. It should be "run robotic simulations in the cloud" (hence the name Cloudsim) or "run robotic applications in the cloud" if you want to go with something more generic.

```suggestion
  <p>Cloudsim is an open source library to run robotic applications in the cloud. It currently supports deployments using Kubernetes and AWS resources, but support for other providers can be implemented.</p>
```

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gazebo-web/cloudsim?include_prereleases=&sort=semver&color=blue)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/releases/)

> [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue)](#license)

Reviewer: Can we run this by Nate to understand the license we should use?

Author: We should keep the same license, maybe applying this change:

```suggestion
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%20v2-blue)](#license)
```

Author: We can keep this as is.

[![issues - cloudsim](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/gazebo-web/cloudsim)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/issues)

[![Format](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gazebo-web/cloudsim/format.yaml?branch=main&label=Format)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/actions?query=workflow:"Format")

> [![Test](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gazebo-web/cloudsim/test.yaml?branch=main&label=Test)](https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/actions?query=workflow:"Test")

Reviewer: Is this meant to reflect the latest status of the CI pipeline on `main`? If that is the case, I don't know how useful this is.

Reviewer: What information does it intend to convey? Can you share some repos that use this so that I can check them ou?

Author: I stand corrected, I thought this was done in the same way in other repos, but that's not actually the case. We can remove the `branch` query param.

The problem with doing that is that if you access this link: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gazebo-web/cloudsim/format.yaml?label=Format

you'll see that is marked as `passing`, but what branch is it referring to?

Reviewer: Why don't we remove this? We can always check the state of the CI in the branch's commit.

Author: Sure!

</div>

## Getting started

> The cloudsim library provides multiple components that are used by applications to run simulations in the cloud. These components usually are an abstraction of a third-party service that will be consumed by cloudsim, and they were created in

Reviewer: I think it's important to define a vocabulary before jumping into things. We are talking about applications and components without having introduced those concepts beforehand. 

We should have an intro that explains that this repo contains Cloudsim, which is a library that provides a set of components that applications can use to run robotic applications in the cloud. 

We should also move the **Features** section before this section to explain that there are different component types, and that each component type typically has a 1:1 relationship with some established technology (e.g. Kubernetes) or provider (e.g. AWS, GCP, Azure, etc.). Listing current implementations of components might be helpful for people to understand both the component's role and Cloudsim's capabilities.

Author: > We should have an intro that explains that this repo contains Cloudsim, which is a library that provides a set of components that applications can use to run robotic applications in the cloud.

That's already added a as description to the logo, I'm trying to write something more meaningful but I can't find anything to add other than a brief definition of what Applications and Components are, which was already kind of explained in the text highlighted by your comment.

> We should also move the Features section before this section to explain that there are different component types, and that each component type implementation typically has a 1:1 relationship with some established technology (e.g. Kubernetes) or provider (e.g. AWS, GCP, Azure, etc.). Listing current implementations of components might be helpful for people to understand both the component's role and Cloudsim's capabilities.

This could be included as a definition of a component, but we should probably add a table to show what are the current implementations for the different components, although this was made pretty obvious now that we follow the `pkg/<component>/implementation/<technology>` folder structure.

Author: This tells me we should invest a bit more of time into our source code documentation to implement the latest changes from `go doc`: https://go.dev/doc/comment

Reviewer: We can definitely do that in another PR. Feel free to open an issue for that.

Author: https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/issues/9

order to let the application decide which cloud provider to use.

> A more extensive description of each component and examples on how to create applications will be introduced in a future version of this document.

Reviewer: This should be moved to the end of the **Features** section.

> ### Features

Reviewer: How about we rename this to **Components**?

Author: Sure, I went from Components to Features while editing this document, so maybe it makes a lot of sense to use components, wasn't sure about it.

- A **Platform** component that groups other components in such a way that represents a certain region in a cloud provider or a custom setup used by applications.
- A **Machines** component in charge of interacting with a cloud provider and performing various operations (request, termination, count) with instances like _EC2_ machines.
- A **Storage** component that uploads artifacts produced by a Simulation to a cloud storage like _S3_.
- A **Cost Calculator** component that allows application to keep track of their expenses and the cost of running simulations in a certain cloud provider.
- An **Orchestrator** component that interacts with a Kubernetes cluster to launch, stop and restart simulation resources, including but not limited to the following sub-components:
    - Pods
    - Nodes
    - Secrets
    - Configurations
    - Network
    - Ingresses
    - Services
- A **Cycler** component that allows cycling over different regions in a cloud provider, implementing different strategies to enable multi-region support.
- An **Email Sender** that allows notifying users about their simulations.

## Installation
Using Go CLI
```shell

> go get github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/v4

Reviewer: Not entirely related to this PR, but the latest tag we have in this repo is `3.6.0`, and that version's `go.mod` file does not contain a package version. 

In another PR, let's please version our `go.mod` file to `v4` and create a new release/tag in this repository so that this command can actually work.

Reviewer: After sending my review I have now noticed that there is an open PR (https://github.com/gazebo-web/cloudsim/pull/6) for this already. Resolving.
